= crush -- manage your unix systems with pure Ruby

Crush is an interactive shell and unix integration library which uses Ruby as its core syntax.  Walk directory trees; create, copy, search, and destroy files; find and kill processes - everything you'd normally do with shell commands, now in the strict and elegant world of Ruby.

Crush is originally based on the Rush shell created by Adam Wiggins. That shell can be found at http://github.com/adamwiggins/rush. Although Crush is a separate
project with a separate focus and different goals, we do maintain our own fork of Adam's rush shell for pushing useful changes upstream. For that repository, visit http://github.com/rezonant/rush.

== Usage

Count the number of classes in your project using bash:

  find myproj -name \*.rb | xargs grep '^\s*class' | wc -l

In crush, this is:

  myproj['**/*.rb'].search(/^\s*class/).lines.size

Pesky stray mongrels?  In bash:

  kill `ps aux | grep mongrel_rails | grep -v grep | cut -c 10-20`

In crush:

  processes.filter(:cmdline => /mongrel_rails/).kill

== As a library

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'crush'

  file = Crush['/tmp/myfile']
  file.write "hello"
  puts file.contents
  file.destroy

  puts Crush.my_process.pid
  puts Crush.processes.size
  puts Crush.bash("echo SHELL COMMAND | tr A-Z a-z")
  puts Crush.launch_dir['*.rb'].search(/Rush/).entries.inspect

== Invoking the shell

Run the "crush" binary to enter the interactive shell.

== Remote access and clustering

crush can control any number of remote machines from a single location. Copy files or directories between servers as seamlessly as if it was all local.

Example of remote access:

  local = Rush::Box.new('localhost')
  remote = Rush::Box.new('my.remote.server.com')
  local_dir = local['/Users/adam/myproj/']
  remote_dir = remote['/home/myproj/app/']

  local_dir.copy_to remote_dir
  remote_dir['**/.svn/'].each { |d| d.destroy }

Clustering:

  local_dir = Rush::Box.new('localhost')['/Users/adam/server_logs/'].create
  servers = %w(www1 www2 www3).map { |n| Rush::Box.new(n) }
  servers.each { |s| s['/var/log/nginx/access.log'].copy_to local_dir["#{s.host}_access.log"] }

== Reference

For more details on syntax and commands, see:

* Crush
* Crush::Entry
* Crush::File
* Crush::Dir
* Crush::Commands
* Crush::Box
* Crush::Process
* The in-shell help system (use the 'help' command)

== Meta

Crush is William Lahti's extended version of the Rush shell. The Rush shell was originally created by Adam Wiggins, with patches by Chihiro Ito, Gabriel Ware, Michael Schutte, Ricardo Chimal Jr., and Nicholas Schlueter, Pedro Belo, and Martin Kuehl. The Rush logo was created by James Lindenbaum. Released under the MIT License: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

